Yongjie Sha et al.. "Comparing the effectiveness of secondary distribution of HIV self-testing to testing card referral in promoting HIV testing among men who have sex with men in China: A quasi-experimental study." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.09.21256226. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.09.21256226.
Background Social network-based HIV self-testing (HIVST) is useful to promote HIV testing. Secondary distribution is one social network-based method whereby individuals (indexes) access multiple HIVST kits and distribute them to their social networks (alters). This quasi-experimental study compared the effectiveness and cost of two social network-based HIV testing strategies (HIVST secondary distribution and HIV testing card referral) in promoting HIV testing among Chinese men who have sex with men (MSM).Methods MSM aged 18 years or older were recruited in Guangzhou, Guangdong Province. From May to September 2019, indexes recruited during that period could distribute HIVST kits to people within their social network. Indexes recruited from October 2019 to January 2020 could refer HIV testing cards to people within their social network for free facility-based tests. Participants could access 1-5 HIVST kits or testing referral cards for distribution. Alters were encouraged to upload a picture of their test results and complete an online survey. Indexes and alters received an incentive to report test results.Results Two hundred thirty-nine potential participants were assessed for eligibility and 208/245 (84.9%) were eligible. Among those who completed baseline assessment, 154/208 (74.0%) completed one month of follow-up. Overall,106 indexes were recruited in the HIVST arm and 102 in the testing card arm. The two arms had similar socio-demographic characteristics. At the one-month follow-up, 92 indexes in the HIVST arm self-reported having distributed self-test kits to 179 unique alters, and 62 in the testing card arm self-reported having distributed testing referral cards to 26 unique alters. Additionally, 69/92 (75%) in the HIVST arm distributed any test to friends or sexual partners compared to 18/62 (29%) in the testing card arm, with a risk difference of 46% (95% CI 31%, 61%). Indexes in the HIVST arm distributed an average of 1.95 (SD=1.90) tests, compared to 0.42 (SD=0.78) in the testing card arm, with a risk difference of 1.53 (95% CI 1.09, 1.96). Subgroup analysis suggested that indexes in the HIVST arm who self-identified as gay (p = 0.007) or were previously tested for HIV (p = 0.02) were more likely to distribute. The HIVST arm had a higher total cost and higher testing coverage compared to the testing card referral arm. The ICER per alter tested was $52.78.Conclusions Secondary distribution of HIVST engaged more MSM to distribute tests to their social network and reached more MSM for test. MSM who self-identify as gay or who have previously tested for HIV were more effective in distributing tests. Future testing approaches should include HIVST kits in voluntary counselling and testing settings and incorporate digital strategies for secondary distribution.Key wordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical TrialChiCTR1900025433Funding StatementThis work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China [grant number 2017YFE0103800]; Academy of Medical Sciences and the Newton Fund [grant number NIF\R1\181020]; the National Institutes of Health [grant numbers NIAID 1R01AI114310-01, NIAID K24AI143471, R25 AI140495]; UNC Center for AIDS Research [grant number NIAID 5P30AI050410]; National Science and Technology Major Project of China [grant number 2018ZX10101-001-001-003]; the National Nature Science Foundation of China [grant numbers 81903371, 81772240]; and Zhuhai Medical and Health Science and Technology Plan Project [grant number 20181117A010064].Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study protocol was given approval by the ethics review committees at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the Dermatology Hospital of Southern Medical University. Verbal consent was obtained from all participants who came to the sites and agreed to participate. Signed online consent was accessed from all index participants who completed the baseline survey and alters who submitted their testing results.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe data are avaliable upon sending requirement to the corresponding author of the manuscript.

Christian Julian Villabona-Arenas et al.. "USING PHYLOGENETICS TO ACCURATELY INFER HIV-1 TRANSMISSION DIRECTION." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.12.21256968. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.12.21256968.
Inferring the direction of transmission between linked individuals living with HIV provides unparalleled power to understand the epidemiology that determines transmission. State-of-the-art approaches to infer directionality use phylogenetic ancestral state reconstruction to identify the individual in whom the most recent common ancestor of the virus populations originated. However, these methods vary in their accuracy when applied to different datasets and it is currently unclear under what circumstances inferring directionality is inaccurate and when bias is more likely. To evaluate the performance of phylogenetic ancestral state reconstruction, we inferred directionality for 112 HIV transmission pairs where the direction of transmission was known, and detailed additional information was available. Next, we fit a statistical model to evaluate the extent to which epidemiological, sampling, genetic and phylogenetic factors influenced the outcome of the inference. Third, we repeated the analysis under real-life conditions when only routinely collected data are available. We found that the inference of directionality depends principally on the topology class and branch length characteristics of the phylogeny. Specifically, directionality is most correctly inferred when the phylogenetic diversity and the minimum root-to-tip distance in the transmitter is greater than that of the recipient partner and when the minimum inter-host patristic distance is large. Similarly, under real-life conditions, the probability of identifying the correct transmitter increases from 52%—when a monophyletic-monophyletic or paraphyletic-polyphyletic tree topology is observed, when the sample size in both partners is small and when the tip closest to the root does not agree with the state at the root—to 93% when a paraphyletic-monophyletic topology is observed, when the sample size is large and when the tip closest to the root agrees with the state at the root. Our results support two conclusions. First, that discordance between previous studies in inferring transmission direction can be explained by differences in key phylogenetic properties that arise due to different evolutionary, epidemiological and sampling processes; and second that easily calculated metrics from the phylogenetic tree of the transmission pair can be used to evaluate the accuracy of inferring directionality under real-life conditions for use in population-wide studies. However, given that these methods entail considerable uncertainty, we strongly advise against using these methods for individual pair-level analysis.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementCJVA and KEA were funded by an ERC Starting Grant (award number 757688) awarded to KEA. MH was funded by The HIV Prevention Trials Network (grant number H5R00701.CR00.01) and The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (grant number OPP1175094). JACB was supported by the MRC Precision Medicine Doctoral Training Programme (ref: 2259239). KAL was supported by The Wellcome Trust and The Royal Society grant no. 107652/Z/15/Z. JB received support from the UK MRC and the UK DFID (#MR/R010161/1) under the MRC/DFID Concordat agreement and as part of the EDCTP2 Programme supported by the European Union.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Ethics approval was not required for this study; This study uses publicly available genetic and epidemiological data that was generated in previous studies and that was collated and described in 10.1126/science.aba5443All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThis study uses publicly available genetic and epidemiological data that was generated in previous studies and that was collated and described in 10.1126/science.aba5443. The data can be retrieved from The Los Alamos HIV and GenBank databases

Janne Estill et al.. "The spatial spread of HIV in Malawi: An individual-based mathematical model." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2020.12.23.20248757. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2020.12.23.20248757.
The prevalence of HIV varies greatly between and within countries. We therefore developed a flexible individual-based mathematical model for HIV transmission, that comprises a spatial representation and individual-level determinants. We tested this model by calibrating it to the HIV epidemic in Malawi and exploring whether the heterogeneity in HIV prevalence could be caused without accounting for heterogeneity in behaviour. We ran the model for Malawi between years 1975-2030 with five alternative realizations of the geographical structure and mobility: (I) no geographical structure; 28 administrative districts including (II) only permanent relocations between districts, (III) permanent relocations and between-district casual sexual relationships, or (IV) permanent relocations between districts and to/from abroad and between-district casual sex; and (V) a grid of 10×10km2 cells, with permanent relocations and between-cell casual relationships. We assumed HIV was present in 1975 in the districts with &gt;10% prevalence in 2010. We calibrated the models to national and district-level prevalence estimates.Reaching the national prevalence required all adults to have at least 20 casual sex acts/year until 1990. Models II, III and V reproduced the geographical heterogeneity in prevalence to some extent if between-district relationships were either excluded (Model II) or restricted to minimum (Models III, V). Long-distance casual partnership mixing (Models III-V) mitigated the differences in prevalence substantially; with international migration the differences disappeared completely (Model IV). National prevalence was projected to decrease to 4-5% by 2030. Our model sustained the major differences in HIV prevalence across Malawi, if casual relationships between districts were kept at sufficiently low level. An earlier introduction of HIV into the Southern part of Malawi may thus be one of the explanations to the present heterogeneity in HIV prevalence.Author summary The prevalence of HIV varies greatly across the settings, both globally and within countries. The ability of the commonly used compartmental models to account for the geographical structure and individual-level determinants that cause this heterogeneity is limited. In this project, we developed an individual-based simulation framework for modelling HIV transmission in a real setting. We built the model to take into account an unlimited number of individual-level characteristics, and a geographical representation of the setting that can be defined using an arbitrary resolution and distance matrices. We demonstrate the use of this model by simulating the HIV epidemic of Malawi 1975-2030 and exploring whether the observed heterogeneity could be preserved without taking into account any spatial heterogeneity in sexual behaviour. A relatively simple version of the model reproduced the broad-scale differences in HIV prevalence, but the detailed differences will need further investigation.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical Protocols https://gitlab.com/igh-idmm-public/agent-based-hiv-transmission-model Funding StatementThis study was funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (grant number PP00P3_163878)Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:We used no primary data from human subjects.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe study uses only publicly available data.

Jackson J. Wallner et al.. "Rapid, Near Point-of-Care Assay for HLA-B*57:01 Genotype Associated with Severe Hypersensitivity Reaction to Abacavir." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.26.21257187. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.26.21257187.
Objective The nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor abacavir is commonly used to treat young children with HIV infection. Abacavir can trigger a severe hypersensitivity reaction in people who are homozygous or heterozygous for HLA-B*57:01. Testing for HLA-B*57:01 prior to abacavir initiation is standard-of-care in high-resource settings, but current tests are too costly for resource-limited settings. To address this gap, we developed an inexpensive, simple-to-use rapid assay to detect HLA-B*57:01.Methods We designed and optimized a multiplexed PCR to amplify HLA-B*57 subtypes and the human beta-globin gene. Subsequently, probes annealed to the amplicon and were ligated when specific for the HLA-B*57:01 allele. Ligated products were detected by immunocapture in a lateral flow strip. Cell lines with known HLA genotypes were used to optimize the assay. The assay was then evaluated by comparing the genotype of clinical specimens (n=60) enriched for individuals with HLA-B*57:01 by the new assay to that from sequencing.Results The optimized multiplex PCR for B*57 and beta-globin resulted in a 40-minute, 35-cycle amplification, followed by a 20-minute ligation reaction and 15-minute detection step. Evaluation of the HLA-B*57:01 oligonucleotide ligation assay using clinical specimens had a sensitivity of 100% (n=27/27 typed as B*57:01) and specificity of 100% (n=33/33 typed as non-B*57:01) by visual interpretation of lateral flow strips.Conclusions This rapid and economical assay can accurately detect the presence of HLA-B*57:01 in clinical specimens. Use of this assay could expand access to HLA-B*57:01 genotyping and facilitate safe same-day initiation of abacavir-based treatment.Key WordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementSupport for this project came from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) including R01 AI110375 (LMF); R01 AI145486 (BRL); the Clinical and Retrovirology Research Core and the Molecular Profiling and Computational Biology Core of the University of Washington Fred Hutch Center for AIDS Research [P30 AI027757]; and the International Maternal Pediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trials Network (IMPAACT). IMPAACT is funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) with co-funding from the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) and the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), all components of NIH under Award Numbers UM1AI068632 (IMPAACT LOC), UM1AI068616 (IMPAACT SDMC) and UM1AI106716 (IMPAACT LC), and by NICHD contract number HHSN275201800001I. The work was supported in part by funds from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (grants PJT-148621 and PJT-159625), received by SAR, as well as funds from the Mexican Government (Comision de Equidad y Genero de las Legislaturas LX-LXI y Comision de Igualdad de Genero de la Legislatura LXII de la H. Camara de Diputados de la Republica Mexicana), received by SAR. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the funders.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Recruitment of the Mexican samples was evaluated and approved by the Ethics Committee of INER (protocol code E02-17). All participants were adults (&gt;18 years) and gave written informed consent before blood sample donation. Seattle Primary Infection Cohort was reviewed and approved by the UW Institutional Review Board, and all subjects provided written consentAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesGenbank submission pending

Daniel G. Dunlap et al.. "Magnetic activated cell-sorting identifies a unique lung microbiome community associated with disease states." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.02.21258247. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.02.21258247.
Rationale The advent of culture-independent, next-generation DNA sequencing has led to discovery of distinct lung bacterial communities. Studies of lung microbiome taxonomy often reveal only subtle differences between health and disease, but microbial host response may distinguish members of similar communities in different populations.Objectives Magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) has been applied to the gut microbiome to identify numbers and types of bacteria eliciting a humoral response. We adapted this technique to examine populations of immunoglobulin-bound bacteria and investigate the lung microbiota in HIV as a representative disease.Methods 42 people living with HIV (PLWH) and 22 HIV-uninfected individuals underwent bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). We separated immunoglobulin G-bound bacteria using MACS and sequenced the 16S rRNA gene on the Illumina MiSeq platform. We analyzed sequences and quantified BAL cytokines and bacterial rRNA copy numbers.Measurements and Main Results Immunoglobulin G-bound bacteria were detectable in the healthy lung microbiota. Comparison of raw BAL by HIV status showed no significant taxonomic differences, but the immunoglobulin-bound lung microbiota differed by HIV status with greater abundance of Pseudomonas in PLWH. BAL cytokine levels were also higher in PLWH, which correlated with increased quantity of immunoglobulin G-bound bacteria.Conclusions We report a novel application of magnetic-activated cell sorting to identify immunoglobulin G-bound bacteria in the lung. This technique identified distinct bacterial communities which differed in composition from raw BAL, revealing differences in health and disease not detected by traditional analyses. Cytokine response was also associated with differential immunoglobulin binding of lung bacteria, suggesting functional importance of these communities.Key WordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementProvided by the National Institutes for Health: NIH R01HL120398, K24HL123342, R01HL125049 (AM); K24HL087713 (LH); University of Pittsburgh CTSI (UL1 TR000005); UL1 TR000004 (UCSF CTSA); R21 HL-17-022 (BAM). Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The University of Pittsburgh, University of California, Los Angeles, and University of California, San Francisco institutional review boards approved this study.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesAll sequencing data is available at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra. Project name: PRJNA720126. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/?term=PRJNA720126

Xueying Yang et al.. "The role of HIV infection in the clinical spectrum of COVID-19: a population-based cohort analysis based on US National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) Enclave data." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.03.21258324. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.03.21258324.
Background Evidence of whether people living with HIV (PLWH) are at elevated risk of adverse COVID-19 outcomes is limited. We aimed to investigate this association using the population based National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) data in the US.Methods The harmonized, high-granularity electronic health record data from 54 clinical sites in N3C were used for this study. Logistic and multinominal logistic regression models were employed to estimate the association between HIV infection and hospitalization, mortality and clinical severity of COVID-19, with models being initially adjusted for age and sex, then cumulatively adjusted for race and ethnicity, smoking and obesity, and a broad range of comorbidities. Interaction terms were added to assess modification effect by age, sex, and race.Findings Among a total of 1,436,622 adult COVID-19 cases between January 2020 and May 2021, 13,170 had HIV infection. A total of 26,130 deaths occurred, with 445 among PLWH. PLWH had higher risk of COVID-19 death and hospitalization than non-PLWH after adjusting for age and sex. The associations were attenuated, but remained significant, after adjusting for lifestyle factors and comorbidities (COVID-19 death: [adjusted OR(AOR): 1.38; 95%CI: 1.25-1.54]; hospitalization: [AOR: 1.23; 95%CI: 1.18-1.28]). In terms of COVID-19 disease severity, PLWH were less likely to have mild/moderate illness but more likely to have severe illness when only controlling for demographics, smoking and BMI, although the estimated risk was obviated after controlling for comorbidities. Interaction terms revealed that the elevated risk was higher among older age group, males and black/African American.Interpretation PLWH in the US had increased risk of COVID-19 hospitalization and mortality comparing with non-PLWH. The adverse COVID-19 outcomes might not only be accounted for by HIV but also by other risk factors that are highly prevalent in PLWH.Funding National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, National Institute of Allergy And Infectious Diseases, USKeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThe analyses described in this publication were conducted with data or tools accessed through the NCATS N3C Data Enclave https://covid.cd2h.org and supported by NCATS U24 TR002306 and the National Institute of Allergy And Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number R01AI127203-4S1.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:An Institutional Data Use Agreement was signed between University of South Carolina and National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS) N3C Data Enclave and our study protocol received approval from the institutional review board in University of South Carolina.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesNational Institute of Health (NIH) National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) has clear procedures for researchers to gain access to the data (1000+ researchers already have access to the data) and as such the patient statistical analysis of this manuscript is transparent and repeatable.

Matthew M. Kavanagh et al.. "Law, Criminalisation and HIV in the World: Have countries that criminalise achieved more or less successful AIDS pandemic response?." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.04.21258360. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.04.21258360.
How does the use of criminal law affect disease-fighting efforts, particularly in a pandemic? This longstanding question for governments around the world is felt acutely in the context of the COVID-19 and HIV pandemics. Many countries have laws and policies that criminalise behaviours, making same-sex relationships, illicit drug use, and sex work illegal. Meanwhile, some countries have enshrined gender- and rights-protective institutions in law. Under the global AIDS strategy of the last five years, national AIDS response efforts in countries have focused on reaching people living with HIV with testing and antiretroviral treatment to suppress the HIV virus, preventing mortality and HIV transmission. At the end of this 5-year push, this article provides an ecological analysis of whether those countries with criminalising legal environments achieved more or less success. In countries where same-sex relationships were fully criminalised, the portion of people living with HIV who knew their status was 11% lower and viral suppression rates were 8% lower. Under sex-work criminalization, the rate of people living with HIV who knew their status was 10% lower and viral suppression 6% lower. Drug use criminalisation was associated with 14% lower knowledge of status and viral. On the other hand in countries with laws advancing non-discrimination, human rights institutions, and gender-based violence response, HIV services indicators were significantly better. This ecological evidence on the relationships between the legal environment and successful HIV response provides support for a strategy that includes a focus on law reform to achieve goals missed in 2020.Summary BoxCountries around the world, across economic and geographic boundaries, have taken different approaches to the application of criminal law to same-sex sex, sex work, and drug use—with most taking a partially or fully criminalising legal approach in one or more of these areas.In tackling the AIDS pandemic, globally agreed goals for 2020 focused on ensuring most people living with HIV were aware of their HIV status and had suppressed the HIV virus through effective antiretroviral treatment.The AIDS response in countries that criminalised was less successful than those that did not—achieving significantly lower levels of HIV status knowledge and HIV viral suppression.Countries with clear laws advancing non-discrimination, human rights institutions, and gender-based violence response had better knowledge of HIV status and viral suppression rates.This analysis suggests a new global AIDS strategy that includes a focus on law reform may hold promise in achieving goals that were missed in 2020.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThis work was funded by a grant from UNAIDS and USAID.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:no human subjects were involved, only secondary data analysis.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesAll data are available online at www.HIVPolicyLab.org and https://aidsinfo.unaids.org/ https://hivpolicylab.org/ https://aidsinfo.unaids.org/

Linwei Wang et al.. "Health-related quality of life of female sex workers living with HIV in South Africa." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.07.21258225. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.07.21258225.
Background Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is an important HIV outcome beyond viral suppression. However, there are limited data characterizing HRQoL of key populations including female sex workers (FSW) living with HIV.Methods We used baseline data (2018-2020) of FSW who were diagnosed with HIV and enrolled into a randomized trial in Durban, South Africa. HRQoL information was collected by a generic preference-based tool with five domains (EQ-5D), and summarized into a single score (range 0-1) which represents health utility. We employed multivariable beta regression models to identify determinants of HRQoL and to estimate subgroup-specific HRQoL score.Findings Of 1363 individuals (mean age: 32.4 years; mean HRQoL score: 0.857) in our analysis, 62.6% used drugs, 61.3% experienced physical or sexual violence, and 64.6% self-reported taking antiretroviral treatment (ART). The following were associated with a reduction in the average marginal HRQoL score: older age (per decade: 0.018 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.008, 0.027]), drug use (0.022 [0.007, 0.036]), experience of violence (0.024 [0.010, 0.038]), and moderate (vs. no) level of internalized stigma (0.023 [0.004, 0.041]). Current ART use was associated with a 0.015-point (−0.001, 0.031) increase in the HRQoL score. The estimated mean (95%CI) HRQoL scores ranged from 0.838 (0.816, 0.860) for FSW who used drugs, experienced violence, and were not on ART; to 0.899 (0.883, 0.916) for FSW who did not use drugs nor experience violence and were on ART.Interpretation These results demonstrate the association of ART with higher HRQoL among FSW and the need to further address structural risks including drug use, violence, and stigma. Population-specific estimates of HRQoL score can be further used to calculate quality-adjusted life years in economic evaluations of individual and structural interventions addressing the needs of FSW living with HIV.Funding National Institutes of Health (R01NR016650)Evidence before this study We searched PubMed on April 9, 2021 for studies published in English that examined the health-related quality of life of female sex workers (FSW) living with HIV. We used the search terms (“quality of life”) AND (“sex workers”) AND (“HIV”). Our search resulted in a total of 14 studies. We excluded 6 studies as their study sample did not include female sex workers; and another 2 studies as they were mathematical modeling or cost-effectiveness analyses which did not include original data. Of the remaining 6 studies, 5 were among FSW in general, regardless of their HIV status; we only identified one study that specifically examined the quality of life in FSW living with HIV: among 98 HIV-positive women who were former commercial sex workers in Nepal, the authors examined the degree to which indicators of physical, mental, and social domains explained variation in overall perceived life satisfaction. Of the 5 studies among FSW in general, 3 were qualitative studies, one was a quantitative individual-level study, and one was a systematic review and meta-analysis. The meta-analysis of eight studies (China, India, Korea, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Armenia, and the United States) published before July 2013 found that increased psychological health conditions were associated with increased HIV risk behavior. By searching citations of the above systematic review, we identified another more recent meta-analysis which examined the prevalence and risk factors of mental health conditions among FSW in low and middle income countries. This meta-analysis included 56 unique studies published up to April 2020, demonstrating prevalent mental health conditions among FSW in low- and middle-income settings, with increased burden of mental health conditions associated with experiences of violence, harmful alcohol and drug use, inconsistent condom use, and HIV incidence. In summary, although mental health conditions of FSW have been broadly explored in the literature, there remains a dearth of research which evaluated health-related quality of life of FSW living with HIV.Added value of this study We directly evaluated the HRQoL of FSW living with HIV in South Africa. We used data on a sample of FSW who were diagnosed with HIV and enrolled into a randomized trial via a local sex worker program in Durban. Our comprehensive baseline questionnaire allowed us to examine a range of factors (sociodemographic characteristics, clinical features and treatment of HIV, drug use and other social and structural factors) and their relationship with HRQoL among FSW living with HIV. The average HRQoL score was 0.857 for FSW living with HIV. We identified older age, lack of ART use, drug use, and experience of violence as being associated with a lower HRQoL score among FSW living with HIV. We did not find an independent association between CD4 count or viral load with HRQoL score after adjusting for current ART use and other covariates. In addition, we derived overall and subgroup-specific estimates of HRQoL scores, representing health utilities, which can be used to calculate quality-adjusted life-years in cost utility analysis for economic evaluations of interventions targeting FSW living with HIV in South Africa.Implications of all the available evidence The findings here reinforce the importance of comprehensive programs to optimize treatment outcomes among sex workers living with HIV. While ART is central given its association with improved quality of life for people living with HIV, a human-centered approach focused on addressing social and structural vulnerabilities including addiction services, violence, and stigma, represent critical components of optimizing quality of life among female sex workers living with HIV in South Africa.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThis study was funded by the National Institutes of Health (R01NR016650).Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study was approved by the University of the Western Cape Biomedical Research Ethics Committee in South Africa; the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health Institutional Review Board in the United States, and the eThekwini Municipality and KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Departments of Health.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe data that support the findings of this study are available from the author, SB, upon reasonable request and approval.

Ariapa, Martin. "Measurement Invariance and Criterion Validity of Comprehensive Knowledge about HIV/AIDS Prevention Scale in the Uganda Demographic and Health Survey Tool." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.10.21258705. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.10.21258705.
Background Limited information exists on the functioning of comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention scale in the Uganda Demographic and Health Surveys.Objectives This paper aimed to: (i) examine measurement invariance of comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention scale across men and women groups in Uganda; and (ii) evaluate the criterion related validity of the scale using HIV testing as an outcome variable.Methods The study was based on cross-sectional Uganda Demographic and Health Survey data of 2016. Measurement invariance was investigated using confirmatory factor analysis in the framework of structural equation modelling while criterion-related validity was investigated by fitting a binary logistic regression model that explained the relationship between HIV testing and comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention.Results The results show that, the construct is invariant across men and women groups at the dimensional, metric and scalar levels, however, all models presented poor fit. Furthermore, criterion-related validity of comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention with HIV testing, was confirmed.Conclusions The findings of this study underscore the need to revise items included in the comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention scale in order to improve its performance.Key wordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThe author received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Guidelines for use of the datasets were provided by MEASURE DHS.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesPermission to use the Uganda DHS 2016 datasets can be requested from MEASURE DHS.

Shivdas Rajaram Naik et al.. "Seroprevalence of COVID-19 in HIV Population." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.17.21259066. Accessed June 23, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.17.21259066.
Background: seroprevalence helps us to estimate the exact prevalence of a disease in a population. More than a year since the identification of the disease, it is still not known the exact burden of the disease in the PLHA group. Seroprevalence data in this subset of the population is scarce in most part of the world, including India. The current study aimed to estimate the seroprevalence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody among people living with HIV/AIDS. Aim: To determine the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in PLHA (People living with HIV/AIDS). Design: This was an observational prospective cohort study. Method: This cross-sectional study, conducted at a tertiary care hospital in North India, recruited HIV positive patients following at the ART centre of the institute. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody levels targeting recombinant spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) protein of SARS CoV-2 were estimated in serum sample by the chemiluminescent immunoassay method. Results: A total of 164 patients were recruited in the study with mean age (+SD) of 41.2 (+15.4) years and 55% male population. Positive serology against SARS CoV-2 was detected in 14% patients (95% C 9.1-20.3%). Conclusion: The seroprevalence of COVID-19 disease in PLHA was found to be lower than the general population.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementNo external fundingAuthor DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study was cleared by the institutional ethics committee of AIIMS, New Delhi (IECPG/439/8/2020)All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).Yes I have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData is saved with the first author and can be made available if requested. but this is not stored on any URLs
