Jinsong Tang et al.. "Widespread Cortical Thickness Reductions Following Non-medical Use of Ketamine: a Structural MRI Study of Individuals with Ketamine Dependence." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.02.21.21252178. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.02.21.21252178.
Background A version of ketamine, called Esketamine has been approved for treatment-resistant depression (TRD). Ketamine (“K powder”), a “dissociative” anesthetic agent, however, has been used non-medically alone or with other illicit substances. Our previous studies showed a link between non-medical ketamine use and brain structural and functional alterations. We found dorsal prefrontal gray matter reduction in chronic ketamine users. It is unknown, however, whether these observations might parallel findings of cortical thickness alterations. This study aimed at exploring cortical thickness abnormalities following non-medical, long-term use of ketamine.Methods Structural brain images were acquired for 95 patients with ketamine dependence, and 169 drug-free healthy controls. FreeSurfer software was used to measure cortical thickness for 68 brain regions. Cortical thickness was compared between the two groups using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with covariates of age, gender, educational level, smoking, drinking, and whole brain mean cortical thickness. Results were considered significant if the Bonferroni corrected P-value &lt; 0.01.Results Compared to healthy controls, patients with ketamine dependence have widespread decreased cortical thickness, with the most extensive reductions in the frontal (including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, DLPFC) and parietal (including the precuneus) lobes. Increased cortical thickness was not observed in ketamine users relative to comparison subjects. Estimated total lifetime ketamine consumption is correlated with the right inferior parietal and the right rostral middle frontal cortical thickness reductions.Conclusions This study provides first evidence that, compared with healthy controls, chronic ketamine users had cortical thickness reductions.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThis study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 81871057 to JT, 81671324 to TL and 81671325 to YL), and the Hunan Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 2020JJ4794 to YL and 2020JJ4795 to TL), and by the Hundred Talents Program funding from Zhejiang University. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to write the report or to submit the paper for publication.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Each study sample was collected with subjects written informed consent approved by the Ethics Committee of the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South University (No. S163, 2011). The authors assert that all procedures contributing to this work were carried out in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, as revised in 2008.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData will be available by request.

Bhanu Prakash Kolla et al.. "Prevalence of sleep disturbance and associated risk factors in UK Biobank participants with alcohol use disorders and major depression." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.03.08.21252907. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.03.08.21252907.
Introduction Current understanding of the differences in sleep disturbance (SD) and associated risk factors in patients with alcohol use disorders (AUD), major depressive disorders (MDD), and comorbid AUD+MDD is limited.Methods Data from the UK Biobank (UKB) (n=47,825) were utilized to categorize subjects into those with MDD (n=5,991), AUD (n=12,952), both (MDD+AUD)(n=3,219), and controls (n=25,663). We used generalized linear models (GLMs) to test whether rates of SD and sleep duration differed among the groups and determine the clinical predictors of SD. Rates of SD and sleep duration were compared using regression analyses accounting for demographic (age, sex, ethnicity, and Townsend deprivation index) and clinical (body mass index, neuroticism score, and alcohol consumption) factors.Results After accounting for diagnostic category, SD was associated with age, female sex, white ethnicity, and higher BMI, neuroticism and alcohol consumption scores (all p&lt;0.0001).The unadjusted prevalence of SD was 25.6%, 25.9%, 39.2%, and 41.1% in control, AUD, MDD, and MDD+AUD categories respectively. Rates of SD in controls and AUD group as well as MDD alone and MDD+AUD did not differ in unadjusted models (p=0.45 and 0.075, respectively). Prevalence of SD differed in the four groups (p&lt;0.0001 for all pairwise comparisons) after adjusting for demographic confounders. After further adjustment for clinical factors, effect sizes were reduced, but pairwise comparisons remained significant, except in the AUD versus MDD group (all p&lt;0.05). After adjusting for demographic and clinical factors, sleep duration did not differ among the groups.Conclusion Demographic and clinical characteristics associated with SD were similar in patients with MDD, AUD, and MDD+AUD. The differences in rates of SD between the diagnostic groups were attenuated but persisted after accounting for these confounders. Genetic and other factors capable of influencing SD in patients with MDD, AUD, and comorbid MDD+AUD merit future investigation.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementNo funding was received.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Approval was received from the UK Biobank to utilize data and data were provided under the Application Number 55108 UK Biobank has approval from the North West Multi-centre Research Ethics Committee (MREC), which covers the UK. It also sought the approval in England and Wales from the Patient Information Advisory Group (PIAG) for gaining access to information that would allow it to invite people to participate. PIAG has since been replaced by the National Information Governance Board for Health &amp; Social Care (NIGB). In Scotland, UK Biobank has approval from the Community Health Index Advisory Group (CHIAG).All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThis research has been conducted using the UK Biobank Resource under Application Number 55108.

Muna M. Barakat et al.. "The Use/Abuse of Oral Contraceptive Pills Among Males: A Mixed-Method Explanatory Sequential Study Over Jordanian Community Pharmacists." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.03.11.21253403. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.03.11.21253403.
Background Oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) are considered one of the most important birth control methods in the world. However, these pills were designed for female administration rather than males. This study was designed to investigate patterns of OCPs use and abuse among Jordanian males, according to the community pharmacists’ observations.Method A mixed-method explanatory sequential study was conducted using an online self - administered survey and semi-structured in-depth interviews for community pharmacists. The interviews were utilized using a conceptual framework. Inductive thematic analysis and descriptive/regression analyses were completed using Nvivo and SPSS, respectively.Results A total of 158 questionnaire responses and 22 interviews were included in our analysis. Around half (48.4%) of the questionnaire responses confirmed that males could use OCPs for hair growth enhancement, muscle gain and acne treatment 12.7%, 31.7% and 4.4%, respectively. Through the interviews, the majority of the pharmacists highlighted that most of the males use OCPs for bodybuilding purposes, according to recommendations by their coaches at the gym. The most abused OCPs containing estrogen (Ethinyl estradiol) and progestins (Drospirenone or Levonorgestrel).Conclusion This study provided insight into unexpected uses of OCPs by males in Jordan. Community pharmacists have a crucial role in the management of OCPs use and abuse, However, restricted regulations and monitoring must be released and implemented on the community to limit such practices.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThis study was not funded by any institution.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Applied Science Private University [Ethical approval number: 2019-PHA-14].All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe data will be made available by the corresponding author upon request.

Renée O’Leary et al.. "Respiratory and Cardiovascular Health Effects of E-Cigarette Substitution: Protocol for Two Living Systematic Reviews." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.03.18.21253876. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.03.18.21253876.
Background Despite the clear risks of tobacco use, millions of people continue to smoke. Electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS), commonly called e-cigarettes, have been proposed as a substitute for those who are unwilling or unable to quit. Current systematic and narrative reviews on the health effects of ENDS use, respiratory and cardiovascular effects in particular, have come to differing conclusions.Objective The purpose of our two systematic reviews is to critically assess and synthesize the available human studies on the respiratory and cardiovascular health effects of ENDS substitution for people who smoke. The primary goal is to provide clinicians with evidence on the health effects of ENDS substitution to inform their treatment recommendations and plans. The twin goal is to promote the health literacy of ENDS users with facts on the health effects of ENDS. A secondary goal is to develop policy briefs to provide governmental bodies with a preliminary assessment of the potential public health impacts of ENDS.Methods These two reviews will be living systematic reviews. The systematic reviews will be initiated with a baseline review. Studies will be evaluated with the JBI quality assessment tools and a checklist of biases drawn from the Centre for Evidence Based Medicine’s Catalogue of Bias. A narrative synthesis is planned due to the heterogeneity of data. A search for recently published studies will be conducted every three months, and an updated review published every six months for the duration of the project or possibly longer.Results The baseline and updated reviews will be published in a peer review journal. The review findings will be reported in a white paper for clinicians, a fact sheet for people who use ENDS, and country-specific policy briefs.Conclusions The substitution of ENDS for cigarettes is one of the ways to potentially reduce the risks of smoking. Clinicians and their patients need to understand the potential benefits and possible risks of substituting ENDS for cigarettes. Our living systematic reviews seek to highlight the best and most up-to-date evidence in this highly contentious and fast-moving field of research.KEYWORDSCompeting Interest StatementRO is supported by a contract with ECLAT, Srl. ECLAT has received funding from the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World. She declares no conflicts of interest. MQ has a grant from Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, outside the submitted work, for the project Pakistan Tobacco Economics Research and Dissemination. She declares no conflict of interest. RP has received has received lecture fees and research funding from Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, CV Therapeutics, NeuroSearch A/S, Sandoz, MSD, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, Duska Therapeutics, and Forest Laboratories. He has served as a consultant for Pfizer, Global Health Alliance for treatment of tobacco dependence, CV Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, Duska Therapeutics, ECITA (Electronic Cigarette Industry Trade Association, in the UK), Arbi Group Srl., and Health Diplomats. He has served on the Medical and Scientific Advisory Board (MSAB) of Cordex Pharma, Inc., CV Therapeutics, Duska Therapeutics Inc, Pfizer, and PharmaCielo. Lecture fees from a number of European EC industry and trade associations (including FIVAPE in France and FIESEL in Italy) were directly donated to vaper advocacy non-profit organizations. RP is the founder of the Center for Tobacco prevention and treatment (CPCT) at the University of Catania and the Center of Excellence for the acceleration of Harm Reduction (CoEHAR) at the same University, which has received support from Foundation for a Smoke Free World to conduct 8 independent investigator-initiated research projects on harm reduction. RP is currently involved in the following pro bono activities: scientific advisor for LIAF, Lega Italiana Anti Fumo (Italian acronym for Italian Anti-Smoking League), the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-free Alternatives (CASAA) and the International Network of Nicotine Consumers Organizations (INNCO); Chair of the European Technical Committee for standardization on Requirements and test methods for emissions of electronic cigarettes (CEN/TC 437; WG4). Funding StatementThe protocol was produced with the help of a grant from the Foundation for a Smoke Free World, Inc. The contents, selection and presentation of facts, as well as any opinions expressed in the protocol are the sole responsibility of the author and under no circumstances shall be regarded as reflecting the positions of the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, Inc. The Grantor had no role in the selection of the research topic, study design, or the writing of the protocol or the living systematic review project.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Not applicableAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesNot applicable.

Céline Nicolas et al.. "Sex differences in opioid and psychostimulant craving and relapse: a critical review." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.03.30.21254644. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.03.30.21254644.
A widely held dogma in the preclinical addiction field is that females are more vulnerable than males to drug craving and relapse. Here, we first review clinical studies on sex differences in psychostimulant and opioid craving and relapse. Next, we review preclinical studies on sex differences in psychostimulant and opioid reinstatement of drug seeking after extinction of drug self-administration and incubation of drug craving (time-dependent increase in drug seeking during abstinence). We also discuss ovarian hormones’ role in relapse and craving in humans and animal models and speculate on brain mechanisms underlying their role in cocaine craving and relapse in rodent models. Finally, we discuss imaging studies on brain responses to cocaine cues and stress in men and women.The results of the clinical studies reviewed do not appear to support the notion that women are more vulnerable to psychostimulant and opioid craving and relapse. However, this conclusion is tentative because most of the studies reviewed were correlational, not sufficiently powered, and/or not a priori designed to detect sex differences. Additionally, fMRI studies suggest sex differences in brain responses to cocaine cues and stress. The results of the preclinical studies reviewed provide evidence for sex differences in stress-induced reinstatement and incubation of cocaine craving, but not cue- or cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. These sex differences are modulated in part by ovarian hormones. In contrast, the available data do not support the notion of sex differences in craving and relapse/reinstatement for methamphetamine or heroin in rodent models.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThe authors declare that they do not have any conflicts of interest (financial or otherwise) related to the text of the paper. The write-up of the review was supported by funds to the NIDA Intramural Research Program (YS, LL, MF, and SI), NIAAA Division of Intramural Clinical and Biological Research (LL, MF), NIDA grant K99 DA047419 (NEZ), and Fondation pour la recherche medicale fellowship (CN).Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:N/AAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesN/A

Jill A. Rabinowitz et al.. "Shared genetic etiology between cortical brain morphology and tobacco, alcohol, and cannabis use." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.03.28.21254282. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.03.28.21254282.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have independently identified hundreds of genomic regions associated with brain morphology and substance use. However, the genetic overlap between brain structure and substance use has not been characterized. Here we leverage GWAS summary data of 71 brain imaging measures and alcohol, tobacco, and cannabis use to investigate their genetic overlap using LD score regression. We also used genomic structural equation modeling to model a ‘substance use common genetic factor’ and examined its genetic overlap with brain structure. After accounting for multiple testing, we identified eight significant negative genetic correlations, including between alcoholic drinks per week and average cortical thickness and intracranial volume with the age of smoking initiation; and five positive genetic correlations, including between insula surface area and lifetime cannabis use, and between the common factor with pericalcarine surface area. Our findings highlight a shared genetic etiology between variation in cortical brain morphology and substance use.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementA.I.C. and L.M.G.-M. are supported by UQ Research Training Scholarships from The University of Queensland (UQ). B.L.M. is supported through a Queensland University of Technology (QUT) Postgraduate Research Scholarship. P.M.T. was supported in part by NIH grant U54 EB020403. M.E.R. thanks support of the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council and Australian Research Council (ARC) through a Research Fellowship (GNT1102821).Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:This project was approved by the QIMR Berghofer Human Research Ethics Committee. In addition, for datasets that are not openly public and require an application (ENIGMA and 23andMe), approval was sought form to use their summary data in this specific study. Regarding data derived from the ENIGMA consortium, as indicated in the original article, all participants were genotyped individuals, with cortical MRI data, from 60 worldwide cohorts. Participants in all cohorts gave written informed consent, and each site obtained approval from local research ethics committees or institutional review boards. Ethics approval for the meta-analysis was granted by the QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute Human Research Ethics Committee. Summary data were accessed through direct application to the ENIGMA consortium via its website. Research participants in the original Alcohol, Tobacco, and Cannabis GWAS provided informed consent to take part in this research under a protocol approved by the AAHRPP-accredited institutional review board, Ethical and Independent Review Services. Summary data were accessed through direct application to 23andMe, with an MTA and Statement of Work between QIMR Berghofer and 23andMe for this project.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData are available upon request from ENIGMA and 23andMe. Data from ICC and GSCAN are publicly available. http://enigma.ini.usc.edu/ https://research.23andme.com/dataset-access/ https://ibg.colorado.edu/mediawiki/index.php/GSCAN https://www.ru.nl/bsi/research/group-pages/substance-use-addiction-food-saf/vm-saf/genetics/international-cannabis-consortium-icc/

Charles Oluwatemitope Olomofe et al.. "A CROSS-SECTIONAL SURVEY OF THE PREVALENCE AND THE RISK FACTORS OF TOBACCO USE AMONGST CONSTRUCTION ARTISANS IN EKITI STATE, NIGERIA." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.04.08.21255137. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.04.08.21255137.
Background Construction artisans are those who perform skilled work relating to the erection or assembly of a large structure. These artisans are prone to tobacco use. This study aims to assess the prevalence and the associated risk factors of tobacco use amongst construction artisans in Ekiti State, Nigeria.Materials and Methods This cross-sectional study employed a multi-stage sampling technique to select participants (carpenters and bricklayers) artisans, journeymen, and their apprentices who were working in Ekiti State. Chi-square and logistic regression were used to test for association in bivariate and multivariate analyses respectively.Results The prevalence of ever-smoke amongst respondents was 19.3%. Multivariate analysis showed that artisans who were within the age range 31-40 years were four times more likely to use tobacco (OR=3.410; CI=1.476-7.878). Similarly, being in school and divorced/separated were associated with tobacco use.Conclusion Noting the increased prevalence of tobacco use among construction artisans when compared to the general population, and few self-reported cases of addiction amongst users demands action from communities and government at all levels.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementNo funding was received for this researchAuthor DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Research approval was obtained from the University of Liverpool ethics committee and the Ethics and Research Review Committee of the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti, Ekiti State, Nigeria.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe datasets used and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request

Lawton, Ralph, John Leland and William Leland. "Opioids, Needle Exchange, and Barriers to Care in the Rural Context: Interviews with Law Enforcement and Emergency Medical Personnel." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.04.28.21256269. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.04.28.21256269.
Background The large increase in opioid use, subsequent addiction and related death has come to be known as a national epidemic in the United States, particularly affecting rural areas. The crisis has been met with an increase in attempts to address the large overdose rates. In many of these strategies, first responders such as police and emergency services personnel are placed on the front lines. The input and opinions of these individuals, and the communication with them from agency leadership during program implementation can dramatically affect the success of drug related policies. However, there is a paucity of research focused on the attitudes of primary responders, particularly in rural settings. This study conducts a geographically-focused investigation into the attitudes of rural EMS and law enforcement personnel in regards to opioid treatment in a location that was currently implementing a major substance use policy.Methods Qualitative semi-structured interviews were conducted with 24 members of law enforcement and 22 emergency medical providers within a single rural county in North Carolina. Interviews spanned three sections: demographics, barriers to opioid treatment and county-specific programs.Results The largest barriers to care cited were lack of local treatment resources, the stigma against drug use and a perception that people who use opioids did not want to change. A multi-agency approach to the crisis was supported by EMS personnel and law enforcement. However, first responders’ awareness of an active multiagency county-wide initiative was very limited. This was very surprising, as first responders were expected to implement the program, and this phenomena resulted in very low program efficacy to that point. This result underscored the importance of communication between and within agencies, particularly in environments that are resource-constrained.Conclusions This study is unique in comparing attitudes of rural EMS and law enforcement regarding substance use treatment. This paper provides insight into the viewpoints of rural first responders, with clear implications for rural drug policy. This paper further underscores opportunities for maximizing effective opioid policy in rural settings, particularly emphasizing clear communication between agencies.Key wordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementSupported in part by the Eastern North Carolina Internship ProgramAuthor DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Duke University Institutional Review Board (ref. Number 2018-0006)All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData is available upon request

Suhas Ganesh et al.. "Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol in psychosis: A balancing act of the principal phyto-cannabinoids on human brain and behavior?." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.17.21257345. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.17.21257345.
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are the principal phyto-cannabinoids in the cannabis plant. The differential and possibly antagonistic effects of these compounds on specific brain and behavioral responses, and the mechanisms underlying their effects have generated extensive interest in pre-clinical and clinical neuroscience investigations. In this double-blind randomized placebo-controlled counterbalanced human laboratory experiment, we examined the effects of three different dose ratios of CBD: THC (1:1, 2:1 and 3:1) on ‘neural noise’, an electrophysiological biomarker of psychosis known to be sensitive to cannabinoids as well as subjective and psychotomimetic effects. Interestingly, the lowest CBD:THC ratio (1:1) resulted in maximal attenuation of both THC induced psychotomimetic effects (PANSS positive - ATS = 7.83, df = 1, pcorr = 0.015) and neural noise (ATS = 8.83, df = 1, pcorr = 0.009) with an inverse-linear dose response relationship. Further, in line with previous studies, addition of CBD did not reduce the subjective experience of THC induced “high” (p &gt; 0.05 for all CBD doses).These novel results demonstrate that CBD attenuates THC induced subjective and objective effects relevant to psychosis- but in a dose/ratio dependent manner. Given the increasing global trend of cannabis liberalization and application for medical indications, these results assume considerable significance given the potential dose related interactions of these key phyto-cannabinoids.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical TrialNCT01180374Funding StatementThis work was supported in part from a grant from NIH (R21 DA030696-01; PI: RanganthanAuthor DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Yale Human Investigations Committee, VA connecticut Healhcare System Human Study SectionAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData will not be made available at this stage of pre-print publication

Kathleen A Garrison et al.. "Transdiagnostic connectome-based prediction of craving." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.21.21257620. Accessed June 15, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.21.21257620.
Craving is a central construct in the study of motivation and human behavior and is also a clinical symptom of substance and non-substance-related addictive disorders. Thus, craving represents a target for transdiagnostic modeling. We applied connectome-based predictive modeling (CPM) to functional connectivity data in a large (N=274) transdiagnostic sample of individuals with and without substance-use-related conditions, to predict self-reported craving. CPM is a machine-learning approach used to identify neural ‘signatures’ in functional connectivity data related to a specific phenotype. Functional connectomes were derived from three guided imagery conditions of personalized appetitive, stress, and neutral-relaxing experiences. Craving was rated before and after each imagery condition. CPM successfully predicted craving, thereby identifying a transdiagnostic ‘craving network’ comprised primarily of the posterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus, visual cortex, and primary sensory areas. Findings suggest that craving may be associated with difficulties directing attention away from internal self-related processing, represented in the default mode network.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementMind and Life Institute A-36649338, R01-AA013892-15, P50-DA016556, UL1-De019586, PL1-DA024859, RL1-AA017539, R01-DK00039, R01 MH121095, R01 DA039136Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:All study procedures were approved by the Yale IRB.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesMatlab scripts to run the main CPM analyses can be found at https://github.com/YaleMRRC/CPM/tree/master/matlab/func/misc. BioImage Suite tools used for analysis and visualization can be accessed at www.bisweb.yale.edu.
