Mindy H. Lee et al.. "A feasibility study to test a novel approach to dietary weight loss with a focus on assisting informed decision making in food selection." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.21.21257479. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.21.21257479.
Obesity is a significant contributor to the development of chronic diseases, some of which can be prevented or reversed by weight loss. However, dietary weight loss programs have shortcomings in success rate and magnitude or sustainability of weight loss. The objective of the Individualized Diet Improvement Program (iDip) was to test the feasibility of a novel approach that helps individuals self-select a sustainable diet for weight loss and maintenance instead of providing weight loss products or rigid diet instructions to follow.The iDip study consisted of 22 dietary improvement sessions over 12 months with six months of follow-up. Daily weights were collected, and a chart summarizing progress was provided weekly. Six 24-hour dietary records were collected, and dietary feedback was provided in the form of a protein-fiber plot, in which protein/energy and fiber/energy of foods were plotted two-dimensionally together with a target box specific to weight loss or maintenance. An exit survey was conducted at 12 months.Twelve (nine female, 46.3±3.1 years (mean±SE)) of the initial 14 participants (BMI&gt;28 kg/m2) completed all sessions. Mean percent weight loss (n=12) at six and 12 months was −4.9%±1.1 (p=0.001) and −5.4%±1.7 (p=0.007), respectively. Weight loss varied among individuals at 12 months; top and bottom halves (n=6 each) achieved −9.7%±1.7 (p=0.0008) and −1.0%±1.4 weight loss, respectively. The 24-hour records showed a significant increase in protein density from baseline to final (4.1g/100kcal±0.3 vs. 5.7g/100kcal±0.5; p=0.008). Although mean fiber density showed no significant change from the first month (1.3g/100kcal±0.1), the top half had significantly higher fiber/energy intake than the bottom half group. The survey suggested that all participants valued the program and its individualized approach.In conclusion, half of the participants successfully lost &gt;5% and maintained the lost weight for 12 months without strict diet instructions, showing the feasibility of the informed decision-making approach.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical TrialNCT04605653Funding StatementThe authors received specific fundings.MN, CAMN: ILLU-698-908; United States Department of Agriculture of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture; https://nifa.usda.govCA: T32EB019944; National Institute Of Biomedical Imaging And Bioengineering of the National Institutes of Health; https://www.nibib.nih.govThe funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Office for the Protection of Research Subjects at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign approved the study. IRB#18069 Written informed consent was obtained.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData are available without restriction. https://doi.org/10.13012/B2IDB-4710255_V1

Amela Bander et al.. "Childhood body composition and BMI as a predictor of cardiometabolic non-communicable diseases in adulthood: A systematic review." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.22.21251399. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.22.21251399.
There is growing evidence that childhood malnutrition is associated with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in adulthood and that body composition mediates some of this association. This review aims to determine: if childhood body composition can be used to predict later-life cardiometabolic NCDs; which measures of body composition best predict future NCDs. Three electronic databases were searched for studies where: children aged under 5 year had body composition measured; cardiometabolic health outcomes were measured a minimum of 10 years later. 29 studies met the inclusion criteria. Though a poor proxy measure of body composition, Body mass index (BMI) was commonly reported (n=28, 97%). 25% of these studies included an additional measure (Ponderal Index or skinfold thickness). Only some studies adjusted for current body size (n=11, 39%). Many studies reported that low infant BMI and high childhood BMI increased the risk of NCD-related outcomes in later life but no conclusions can be made about exact timing of child malnutrition and consequent impact on NCD. Because studies focused on BMI rather than direct measures of body composition, nothing can be said about which measures of body composition in childhood are most useful. Future research on child nutrition and long-term outcomes is urgently needed and should include validated body composition assessments as well as standard anthropometric and BMI measurements.Competing Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical Protocols https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=188393 Funding StatementThere was no funding source.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:London School of Hygiene and Tropical MedicineAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesAll data referred to in the manuscript are available on the electronic databases that were searched in this review.

Giuliana Sanchez Samaniego et al.. "Cardiovascular Disease in the Peruvian Highlands: Local Perceptions, Barriers, and Paths to Preventing Chronic Diseases in Andean Adults." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.25.21257458. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.25.21257458.
Objectives Public health interventions can be improved by understanding peoples’ explanatory models of disease. We explore awareness and perceptions of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and options for preventive actions in young rural adults highlanders.Methods 46 men and women from communities in Cajamarca, Peru were purposively selected to participate in eight focus groups, where participants discussed their understanding and perceived causes of CVD as well as barriers and pathways to healthy lifestyles.Results Fresh foods, physical activity, unpleasant emotions, and healthcare access were cited as important determinants of healthy lifestyles. Barriers to healthy diets included lacking nutritional knowledge, fluctuating food prices, and limited access to foodstuffs. Women felt particularly vulnerable to CVD and identified gendered barriers to manage stress and engage in leisure sports. Low health literacy, distance and poor doctor-patient relationships prevented participants from fully accessing healthcare.Conclusions CVD prevention should consider local knowledge of these diseases and of healthy lifestyles and harness ongoing programmes that have successfully promoted good nutrition in children and pregnant women. In concert with public-private parterships, governments should include health prevention for the entire family.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementThis work was supported by the Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of Health under the "Kuskaya: An Interdisciplinary Training Program for Innovation in Global Health" (Award Number D43TW009375). The Swiss-Peruvian Health Research Platform of Swiss TPH and UPCH supported the project with housing, transport, staff, and accommodation for the entire team. The content of the article is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia (UPCH) Ethical Review Board approved the study. Informed consent was obtained from all individuals included in the study. They all consented to the recording of the session.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe data generated and/or analysed during the current study are not publicly available but are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

Kieron D. Edwards et al.. "Assessment of the Effects of a Sage (Salvia officinalis) Extract on Cognitive Performance in Adolescents and Young Adults." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.28.21257776. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.28.21257776.
Background Cognitive health is a major concern for many people, and with potential benefits to academic and professional life, maximising cognitive performance is of interest far beyond the older demographics. Several natural products have been suggested as nootropics, including the herb sage. Previous assessments of various Salvia species have reported a range of effects on cognitive performance and mood in both older adult and younger adult populations. This study was conducted with Sibelius™: Sage, an aqueous-ethanol extract of S. officinalis, to assess for the beneficial effects on cognitive performance in adolescents (12-14 year olds) and young adults (18-25 year olds).Methods and Findings An acute, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted with two single doses of Sibelius™: Sage (150 mg and 300 mg). Cognitive performance was evaluated using CogTrack™, which probes aspects of cognitive performance covering attention, working memory and episodic/declarative memory through a series of computer-based tasks. Consistent with previous study of Sibelius™: Sage a significant effect was seen on the Immediate Word Recall task in young adults; suggesting acute treatment benefits to verbal episodic/declarative memory performance. Physiological effects of the treatment on salivary cortisol and oxytocin levels, as well as blood pressure and heart rate were also assessed, with limited evidence of an effect on these factors. No adverse events or side-effects linked to the study product intake was observed. The study was registered at the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS-ID: DRKS00015716).Conclusions A significant improvement due to the Sage extract was shown for a task assessing short-term episodic memory (Immediate Word Recall), supporting beneficial effects on cognitive performance in young adults that are consistent with previous reports in healthy older adults. These findings suggest that further investigation of the effects observed in this study in larger, long-term human volunteer studies could be beneficial to pursue.Key wordsCompeting Interest StatementThis study was fully sponsored by Sibelius Limited, 20 East Central, 127 Olympic Avenue, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, OX14 4SA, United Kingdom. The sponsors were involved in discussion of the design of the study as well as in the writing of the paper.Clinical TrialDRKS00015716Funding StatementThis study was fully sponsored by Sibelius Limited, 20 East Central, 127 Olympic Avenue, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, OX14 4SA, United Kingdom.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study protocol was submitted on August 08, 2018 and approved on September 26, 2018 by the Ethics Commission of the State Chamber of Medicine of Rhineland-Palatinate, Deutschhausplatz 3, 55116 Mainz, Germany under the processing number 2018-13597All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData are not available on-line. Reasonable requests will be considered.AbbreviationsADAlzheimer’s DiseaseAChEAcetylcholinesteraseBChEButylcholinesteraseBPBlood PressureBFPBody Fat PercentageBMIBody Mass IndexCARCortisol Awakening ResponseHRHeart Rate(HPA)-axishypothalamic-pituitary-adrenalITTIntention To TreatMPMuscle PercentagePPPer ProtocolSAMSelf Assessment ManakinTICSTrier Inventory for Chronic StressVASVisual Analogue Scale

Ebaa Al Ozairi et al.. "A Randomised Crossover Trial: Exploring the Dose-Response effect Of Carbohydrate restriction on glycaemia in people with type 2 diabetes (D-ROC2)." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.05.30.21258049. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.05.30.21258049.
Aims The role of carbohydrate restriction in the management of glycaemia in type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been a subject of immense debate and controversy partly due to low-carbohydrate trials being confounded by multiple factors including degree of calorie restriction, dietary protein content, and by no clear definition of a low-carbohydrate diet. The current study sought to provide insight into the relationship between carbohydrate restriction and glycaemia by testing the effect of varying doses of carbohydrate on continuous glucose concentrations within a range of intakes defined as low-carbohydrate while controlling for confounding factors.Methods This was a randomised crossover trial in participants with T2D testing 5 different 6-day eucaloric, isocaloric dietary treatments with varying carbohydrate contents (10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30% kcal). Diets were kept isocaloric by exchanging %kcal from carbohydrate with predominantly unsaturated fat, keeping protein constant at 15% kcal. Daily self-weighing was employed to ensure participants maintained their weight throughout each treatment arm. Between dietary treatments, participants underwent a washout period of at least 7 days and were advised to maintain their habitual diet. Glycemic control was assessed using a continuous glucose monitoring device that was placed while the participant was on their normal diet, and was worn for the 6 days of each treatment.Results 12 participants completed the study. There were no differences in 24-hour and postprandial sensor glucose concentrations between the 30%kcal and 10%kcal doses (7.4 ± 1.1mmol/L vs 7.6 ± 1.4mmol/L (P=0.28) and 8.0 ± 1.4mmol/L vs 8.3 ± 1.3mmol/L (P=0.28) respectively). In our exploratory analyses we did not find any dose-response relationship between carbohydrate intake and glycaemia. A small amount of weight loss occurred in each treatment arm (range: 0.4 to 1.1kg over the 6 days) but adjusting for these differences did not influence the primary or secondary outcomes.Conclusions Modest changes in dietary carbohydrate content in the absence of weight loss while keeping dietary protein intake constant do not appear to influence glucose concentrations in people with T2D.Trial Registration ISRCTN 11067343.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical TrialTrial Registration: ISRCTN 11067343Funding StatementThis study was funded by the Kuwaiti Foundation for the Advancement of Science. The funder had no role in the design of the study, data collection, analysis, manuscript preparation or publication decisions.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The trial was approved by the Dasman Diabetes Institute Research Ethics Committee (ref: RA HM-2018-04) and prospectively registered with the International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number (11067343). All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThe datasets during and/or analysed during the current study available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.CGMcontinuous glucose monitoringCONGAcontinuous overlapping net glycemic actionHBGIhigh blood glucose indexLBGIlow blood glucose indexMAGEmean amplitude glucose excursionsPALphysical activity levelT2Dtype 2 diabetes.

Hukum Chandra et al.. "Small Area Estimation of Food Insecurity in the Eastern Indo-Gangetic Plain." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.03.21258287. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.03.21258287.
Achieving food security for all citizens is an important policy issue in India. While the existing data based on socio-economic surveys provide accurate estimates of food insecurity indicators at state and national level, due to small sample sizes, the surveys cannot be used directly to produce reliable estimates at the district or lower administrative levels. The availability of reliable and representative disaggregated measures of food insecurity is necessary for effective policy planning and monitoring, as food insecurity is often distributed unevenly within relatively small areas.This article explores a small area estimation (SAE) approach to derive reliable and representative estimates of food insecurity prevalence (FIP), gap (FIG), and severity (FIS) among people in different districts of the rural areas of the Eastern Indo-Gangetic Plain (EIGP) region by linking the latest round of available data from the Household Consumer Expenditure Survey collected by the National Sample Survey Office of India as well as the latest available Indian Population Census data. District-specific food insecurity indictors such as FIP, FIG, and FIS were estimated based on a recommended threshold of per capita caloric intake of 2400 kilocalories per day, as defined by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. Spatial maps showing district level inequality in the distribution of the indicators of food insecurity among the population in EIGP region are also produced. Our disaggregated estimates can provide district-specific focused insights into food insecurity to policy-analysts and decision-makers, and could thereby prove to be useful and relevant to the U.N. Sustainable Development Goal Indicator 2.1.2.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementNo funding was received for this study.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Secondary data analysis. No human subjects research.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData was procured from freely available web resources and is mentioned in the paper.

Jason Mulimba Were et al.. "EXAMINING THE DOUBLE BURDEN OF MALNUTRITION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN AND WOMEN OF REPRODUCTIVE AGE IN LOW- AND MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES: A SCOPING REVIEW PROTOCOL." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.17.21259113. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.17.21259113.
Introduction The majority of the populations in Low-and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) are encountering the double burden of malnutrition (DBM): the coexistence of both undernutrition and overnutrition sequalae. With DBM being a new phenomenon in research, little is known about its etiology, operational definitions and risk factors influencing its manifestation. The proposed scoping review is aimed at mapping literature with regards to the DBM phenomenon among preschool children and women of reproductive age in LMICs who are among the most high-risk groups to encounter DBM.Methods A comprehensive literature search will be conducted in the following electronic databases: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, CINAHL, LILACS and ProQuest Dissertations &amp; Thesis Global. Additionally, searches in other government and institutional sources (World Health Organization website and university repositories) and forward and backward citation tracking of seminal articles will also be done. Two reviewers will independently conduct title and abstract screening and full text screening. Similarly, data extraction and coding will independently be done by two reviewers. Information extracted from included literature will be analysed qualitatively using thematic analysis approach and reported as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines.Ethics and Dissemination Ethical approval is not required for this study because the review is based on literature from publicly available sources. The dissemination of our findings will be done through presentations in relevant conferences and publication in a peer-reviewed journal.Strengths and limitationsTo the best of our knowledge, this is the first scoping review that focuses on exploring the etiology of the double burden of malnutrition among preschool children and women of reproductive age in Low-and Middle-Income Countries.This review will encompass comprehensive literature search and will utilize a renowned thematic analysis framework to synthesis the findings of the study.The findings of this review will be important in not only mapping the current literature with regards to the double burden of malnutrition phenomenon for risk populations but also guiding secondary data analysis for our subsequent studies.The anticipated dearth of causation literature and longitudinal studies in this area of research may limit our findings, specifically in understanding the etiology of double burden of malnutrition.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Clinical TrialThis is a scoping review and there are no recognized registries for scoping reviews.Funding StatementOur study is supported by resources provided by the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Western University. This review is part of a PhD program for JMW, funded by Western Graduate Research Scholarship. Western University has no role or influence in the design of this study.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:This is a scoping review protocol that intends to map data from publicly available sources. Ethical approval is not required.All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesThis is a scoping review protocol that intends to map data from publicly available sources. No data has been gathered.

Kathryn Allen et al.. "The Anorexia Nervosa Care Pathway: Closing the Treatment Gap to Improve Care for Patients Admitted to Medical Hospitals." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.14.21258873. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.14.21258873.
Introduction Medical complications of malnutrition and refeeding account for approximately half of deaths in anorexia nervosa (AN). The AN Care Pathway (ANCP) was introduced at our institution in 2016 to improve quality of care of patients admitted for medical observation and management. We report results from our review of medical complications and report the impact and adoption of the ANCP.Methods The ANCP was developed in response to a need to improve quality of medical monitoring of patients with severe AN using Squire Guidelines and the Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle. All patients admitted to a medical hospital with AN between 2010-2020 were included after hospital inpatient enquiry and medical records were reviewed. Descriptive statistics were calculated using Stata (Statcorp).Results Fifty-one patients (63 admissions) were included. Median BMI was 13.8 kg/m (11.9-22.5). After ANCP implementation in 2016, compliance with recommended daily ECG, thiamine and blood tests improved from 30% (n=8/27) to 86% (n=21/36). We report a high rate of medical complications of severe AN including anaemia (n=24, 47%), neutropoenia (n=18, 35%), abnormal liver bloods (n=15, 29%) and half developed refeeding syndrome. One-third patients had cardiovascular compromise including reduced cardiac contractility (n=13, 25%), pericardial effusion (n=7, 14%) and one death. Low BMI was associated with cardiovascular complications (mean BMI 13.5 kg/m vs 15.5 kg/m, p=0.01) and neutropoenia (mean BMI 13.4 kg/m vs 15.4 kg/m, p=0.02).Conclusion Introduction of the ANCP improved quality of care during medical stabilisation. We report a high rate of medical complications of severe AN in patients admitted to a medical hospital. Use of multidisciplinary care protocols may contribute to quality improvement and improved consistency of care for this vulnerable population.Key wordsCompeting Interest StatementThe authors have declared no competing interest.Funding StatementNo funding support receivedAuthor DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Beaumont Hospital Research Ethics Committee and Clinical Audit DepartmentAll necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesAvailable on request

Jordi Merino et al.. "Diet quality and risk and severity of COVID-19: a prospective cohort study." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.24.21259283. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.24.21259283.
Objective Poor metabolic health and certain lifestyle factors have been associated with risk and severity of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), but data for diet are lacking. We aimed to investigate the association of diet quality with risk and severity of COVID-19 and its intersection with socioeconomic deprivation.Design We used data from 592,571 participants of the smartphone-based COVID Symptom Study. Diet quality was assessed using a healthful plant-based diet score, which emphasizes healthy plant foods such as fruits or vegetables. Multivariable Cox models were fitted to calculate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for COVID-19 risk and severity defined using a validated symptom-based algorithm or hospitalization with oxygen support, respectively.Results Over 3,886,274 person-months of follow-up, 31,815 COVID-19 cases were documented. Compared with individuals in the lowest quartile of the diet score, high diet quality was associated with lower risk of COVID-19 (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.88-0.94) and severe COVID-19 (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.47-0.74). The joint association of low diet quality and increased deprivation on COVID-19 risk was higher than the sum of the risk associated with each factor alone (Pinteraction=0.005). The corresponding absolute excess rate for lowest vs highest quartile of diet score was 22.5 (95% CI, 18.8-26.3) and 40.8 (95% CI, 31.7-49.8; 10,000 person-months) among persons living in areas with low and high deprivation, respectively.Conclusions A dietary pattern characterized by healthy plant-based foods was associated with lower risk and severity of COVID-19. These association may be particularly evident among individuals living in areas with higher socioeconomic deprivation.Competing Interest StatementConflict of Interest JW, CH, SS, and JC are employees of Zoe Global Ltd. TDS, ERL, SEB, are consultant to Zoe Global Ltd. DAD, JM, and ATC previously served as investigators on a clinical trial of diet and lifestyle using a separate mobile application that was supported by Zoe Global Ltd. Other authors have no conflict of interest to declare.Funding StatementGrant Support National Institutes of Health, American Gastroenterological Association, Massachusetts Consortium on Pathogen Readiness, National Institute for Health Research, Crohns and Colitis Foundation, Chronic Disease Research Foundation, UK Medical Research Council, Wellcome Trust, UK Research and Innovation. The funders had no role in the design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript; and decision to submit the manuscript for publication.Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:The study protocol was approved by the Mass General Brigham Human Research Committee (protocol 2020P000909) and Kings College London Ethics Committee (REMAS ID 18210, LRS-19/20-18210).All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData availability statement Zoe Platform data used in this study is available to researchers through UK Health Data Research using the following link: https://web.www.healthdatagateway.org/dataset/fddcb382-3051-4394-8436-b92295f14259. The diet quality data used for this study are held by the department of Twin Research at Kings College London. The data can be released to bona fide researchers using our normal procedures overseen by the Wellcome Trust and its guidelines as part of our core funding. We receive around 100 requests per year for our datasets and have a meeting three times a month with independent members to assess proposals. Application is via https://twinsuk.ac.uk/resources-for-researchers/access-our-data/. This means that the data needs to be anonymized and conform to GDPR standards.

Edward G Walker et al.. "An extract of hops (Humulus lupulus L.) modulates gut peptide hormone secretion and reduces energy intake in healthy weight men: a randomised, cross-over clinical trial." medRxiv , no. (2021): 2021.06.25.21259514. Accessed July 01, 2021. doi: 10.1101/2021.06.25.21259514.
Background Gastrointestinal enteroendocrine cells express a range of chemosensory receptors involved in detecting the chemical composition of food during digestion. These receptors, including bitter taste receptors (T2Rs), may play an important role in regulating gut function and appetite.Objective To establish the ability of Amarasate®, a bitter supercritical CO2 extract of hops (Humulus lupulus L.) to modify acute energy intake, appetite and hormonal responses and establish a site of action.Design Nineteen healthy-weight (BMI = 23.5 ± 0.3 kg/m2) male volunteers completed a randomised three-treatment, double blind, cross-over study with a 1 week washout between treatments. Overnight-fasted participants were cannulated and provided with a standardised 2 MJ breakfast meal. Treatments comprised a vehicle control (Placebo) or hops extract administered in either quick release (Gastric) or delayed release (Duodenal) capsules. Ad libitum energy intake was recorded at an outcome lunch (1200 h) and afternoon snack (1400 h), with blood samples taken and subjective ratings of appetite, gastrointestinal discomfort, vitality, meal palatability and mood assessed throughout the day.Results Compared with placebo, both gastric and duodenal treatments significantly reduced total ad libitum energy intake by 911 ± 308 kJ and 944 ± 309 kJ, respectively. Both gastric and duodenal treatments significantly increased pre-meal ghrelin and post-prandial CCK, GLP-1 and PYY responses while reducing postprandial insulin, GIP and PP secretion with no significant impact on glycemia. In addition, gastric and duodenal treatments produced small but significant changes in measures of gastrointestinal discomfort, vitality and mood, with mild-moderate adverse GI symptoms reported in the gastric treatment only. However, no significant treatment effects were observed for any subjective measures of appetite or meal palatability.Conclusion Both gastric and duodenal delivery of Amarasate modulate the release of hormones involved in appetite and glycaemic regulation, providing a potential “bitter brake” on energy intake in healthy-weight men.KeywordsCompeting Interest StatementEW, MP, KL, CL, KS, JI are employees of The New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Research Ltd, a New Zealand Government-owned Crown Research Institute, which has a royalty agreement associated with sales of the Amarasate® extract. The authors declare that there is no individual personal financial relationship and they gain no financial incentive or royalty payment outside of salaries for their employment. SDP and HS declare no conflict of interest related to this product. The sponsors had no role in the design of the study, the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.Clinical TrialACTRN12614000434695Funding StatementThis research was funded by the New Zealand Government (NZ Ministry of Business, Innovation &amp; Employment, contract C11X1004).Author DeclarationsI confirm all relevant ethical guidelines have been followed, and any necessary IRB and/or ethics committee approvals have been obtained.YesThe details of the IRB/oversight body that provided approval or exemption for the research described are given below:Human ethics approval was obtained from the New Zealand Northern B Health and Disability Ethics committee (ref. 14/NTB/25)All necessary patient/participant consent has been obtained and the appropriate institutional forms have been archived.YesI understand that all clinical trials and any other prospective interventional studies must be registered with an ICMJE-approved registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. I confirm that any such study reported in the manuscript has been registered and the trial registration ID is provided (note: if posting a prospective study registered retrospectively, please provide a statement in the trial ID field explaining why the study was not registered in advance).YesI have followed all appropriate research reporting guidelines and uploaded the relevant EQUATOR Network research reporting checklist(s) and other pertinent material as supplementary files, if applicable.YesData described in the manuscript, code book, and analytic code will be made available upon requestAUCArea under the curveT2Rbitter taste receptorCO2carbon dioxideCCKcholecystokininEIenergy intakeEECenteroendocrine cellGIgastrointestinalGLP-1glucagon like peptide-1GIPglucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptideHbA1cglycated hemoglobinhT2Rhuman bitter taste receptorLSDleast significant differencePPpancreatic polypeptidePYYpeptide YYPOMSprofile of mood statesVASvisual analogue scale.
